---
layout: default
title: Contrastive Transliteration Correction
parent: Model Architecture
nav_order: 2
---

# Contrastive Transliteration Correction
{: .no_toc }

## Model


This model is used to perform spelling correction on Indic words generated by the Transliteration Generation model in the English-to-Indic decoding task and by the CTC Gesture Path Decoder in the Indic-to-Indic decoding task. Word embeddings like GLoVe (Pennington et al., 2014) and Word2Vec (Mikolov et al., 2013) generate vector representations of words that map semantic similarities to geometrical closeness. The ELMo (Peters et al., 2018) network creates contextual word embeddings that depend on the entire sequence of words. It treats a sentence as a sequence of words and uses CNN and LSTM layers for feature extraction to obtain the word embeddings.
In this work, we propose a method to create vector representations of words that are indicative of closeness in their character sequences by using the ELMo network for generating character embeddings by processing each word as a sequence of characters. The resulting embeddings would depend on other characters in the word and their relative positioning, thus making it suitable for spelling comparison. As seen in Figure 2(b), the generated character embeddings of a word are summed together and then min-max normalized to obtain an encoding for the word. This process is followed to obtain an encoding for the misspelt word, w and for each word v in the vocabulary V . Then, the model computes the squared difference between the encodings of the word w and each of the words v to obtain a distancevector,dw,vi ∈R|E|,where|E|istheELMoembeddingdimension.
